EcoInnovators Ideathon 2026 – College Edition 
Frequently Asked Questions 
 
 
1. What are the attributes present in the training data you'll give? 
Answer: 3 links containing annotated satellite images are provided in the 
EcoInnovators Ideathon 2026 Challenge Overview document. 
 
2. Is there any restriction to use only India APIs for retrieving images? 
Answer: No, there is no restriction to use only India APIs for retrieving images.  
 
3. Can we add a feature to place image verification through the satellite image, to 
check really the given image is from their side? 
Answer: Yes, you can add a feature to place image verification. 
 
4. Can you explain overlapping of the buffer area? 
Answer: 
 
Taking the given (lat,lon) as centre, we draw a circle with the given buffer radius. The 
area of overlap of the buffer zone with Panel A is coloured green. The area of overlap 
of the buffer zone with Panel B is coloured violet. Clearly, green area > violet area. 
Hence we choose Panel A. We report the total area of panel A ie, green area + 
yellow area. 
 
First, please check 1200 sq.ft buffer radius. If panel present, please report has_solar 
as true, buffer radius as 1200 sq.ft and calculate total panel area as described above. 
If panel not present, please check 2400 sq.ft buffer radius. If panel present, please 
report has_solar as true, buffer radius as 2400 sq.ft and calculate total panel area. If 
panel not present, please report has_solar as false, buffer radius as 2400 sq.ft and 
total panel area as 0. 
 

5. Could you suggest some sources to obtain high quality images from? 
Answer: You can use the following sources for training the models. 
 Source 1 (Alfred Weber Institute of Economics, Roboflow) 
 Source 2 (LSGI547 Project, Roboflow) 
 Source 3 (Piscinas Y Tenistable, Roboflow) 
 
6. Should we only train models from scratch or are we allowed to use any 
pretrained models if needed? 
Answer: Yes, you can use pretrained models and do transfer learning. 
 
7. What interface should we use to upload Excel files, and do the JSON results 
need to be saved or just displayed? 
Answer: We require the code in Python (preferably). The code should take sampleid, 
latitude and longitude from excel file present in input folder location as input, and 
save the JSON and image overlays to the output folder location. 
 
8. Where do we submit our solution? 
You can submit on the same portal used for registration 
(https://www.schoolnetindia.com/ideathon/college/). The submission link will be made 
live after 21st November 2025. 
 
9. Last date of submission? 
The last date to submit is on 7 December 2025, 11.59 PM. 
 
10. What are the programming languages we can use? 
Answer: Python is preferable. 
 
11. How much latency is expected? Or is that not a matter of concern? 
Answer: Latency is not a matter of concern. 
 
12. Is model size any constraint? Will we be graded based on that? And also the 
inference type. What kind of hardware specs will you be running on?  
Answer: You will not be graded on the model size and inference type.  
The hardware specs of the machine we will run the inference on is, 
Server Type: 2U Rack Server  
CPU: 2 X AMD EPYC 7713 64-Core Processor  
GPU: 4 X NVIDIA A100-SXM4-80GB 
Memory/RAM: 1 TB 
Storage: 14 TB SSD Storage 
 
 
 
